seeing these drafts from the air
was really exciting seeing them
anywhere is exciting because
there's so few of them left but
this was my first shot and
there's a giraffe standing in
this small clearing by a small
tree and then the next thing i
know there's three the next
morning i was informed that
about 12 hours after we had seen
these drafts there's a range of
patrol in the area that heard 10
gunshots
it was too late for them to
follow the shots to find out
where they were they wait until
the next morning they want the
direction of the shots and lo
and behold they found three dead
draft in the area that we had
been ok here's one conquer
yeah
that was horrible it was
horrible for them it was
horrible for me and the team and
the crushing realization that
its its most likely it was these
guys these ones that we've seen
and now there's three less now
there's 37 it was really awful i
was working in a very remote
iconic national park called
Garamba National Park dramas a
park that is run by the ICC and
the Congolese government in
association with African parks
an organization that's
responsible for the management
of the park in the wire life
it's a very challenging
environment on the Congolese in
Sudan border the first thing you
have to do is secure the
perimeter
this is the front lines of the
poaching crisis with a terrorist
network and highly militarized
forces surrounding us in every
direction
this is a tough environment how
high this glass is patrolling
these grounds
you're always at risk of an
ambush
when you approach these animals
through the tall grass even
though you can't see them yet
you know you're getting close to
the carcasses because of the
sound of the Flies just--that's
grow and grow and grow
yeah
button at the Civil waste
tomasa pussy catastrophic scale
is best for people are
conditional de la romana vs in
Micronesia offensive scale on a
dormir Dominicans another killer
custody 04 me call the 787 says
here the program visit tomorrow
an awful lot to tell you one of
these your country
sadly in my career I've seen
elephants before had multiple
stages of decay but I've never
seen a giraffe who kills giraffe
you know it was awful because of
their size and their explicit
form they take a particularly
grotesque appearance when
they're lying down contorted on
the ground
this is a bull and walk over to
that caucus it's a lot smaller
cultures can see what that is
that might be a female this is a
tragedy of epic proportions for
this species Kordofan giraffe
and unique subspecies these are
the last ones left in the entire
region
sad bought this is a female
every single female that blues
is a breeding female that can
produce more on further
examination there's also some
things you notice immediately
which is they didn't take any of
the meat all that they did take
is the tale
yeah
we can now clearly see what what
happened I think they'll
probably all shot at the same
time the first one in the brain
the other one dropped right next
to the first one and this one
was shot multiple times as was
running away you can see some
shots next to the spine on the
lift and some shots from behind
under the tail this giraffe
carcass is only 36 hours old
what happened here was the
approaches to Siri somebody cut
this open with a not-so
approaches cut this open to give
access to the vultures so that
the bulges can finish this
carcass within two days and we
contradict the the carcass from
the vultures the longer the ball
just stay around the longer we
have you detected this one was
was the one that was collared
this was a draft that had a
satellite cholera that was
crashing for the African parks
and around the team that was
with us because this is critical
data that they've now lost just
our normal and approaching
strategy is obviously not
working this trough moves
product we've got colors on all
of our giraffe groups to know
where these groups are at all
times so that we can follow them
we can't shadow them and we can
protect them and we still
failing
you've got five groups of
purchase coming year and
identified helicopters we've got
guys coming from the north
there are a few are only after
elephant they need to fund a war
then we've got the North
Sudanese the ginger wheat the
South Sudanese has got a market
for bush meat
they've got a bunch of refugee
camps the protein start and they
would take the to meet the
Congolese people don't touch the
meat they believed they could
never seen from from eating
giraffe meet they only got the
the tail and they will use that
tail as a dowry to the bride's
father if they want to ask for
their for the hand of a bride so
having the tails cut only
probably indicates that these
with companies approaches just a
very little to prevent them the
long black hairs that are used
as a flyswatter it's worth
thousands of US dollars
the sad part about the the
history of karamba is that we've
lost the northern white rhino
and we now about to lose the
last giraffe if we don't get our
act together and stop this
coaching here is a purely
military task
we're not after groups of two to
three guys ducking in by night
taking around getting out again
we're after heavily militarized
heavily armed groups with
specific directive coming off
take resources get out i think
that's a conservationist and
somebody that's dedicated his
life to the conservation and
whatever form this is deciding
this is ripping out your your
soul
every one of these we find is
just one more incentive one more
push to go a little bit harder
with further and it's never says
was alone symmetrical school boo
just a second members see there
is a tier two separate texts as
well as any problem this year
after they continue to disregard
it and printed in a simple mala
visin pants pocket
Thurman security-related
recognize yourself recognition
telegram it moved me to tears
when I was out there and it's
brought me to tears again
sitting here it's really forcing
me to reflect on this experience
I'll never forget it i'll never
stop being angry i'll never stop
feeling
yeah
the duty to continue but I also
feel tremendously obligated to
bring it back and try and
utilize
the resources and the awareness
that only national geographic
and provide you have to turn
tragedy into a galvanizing force
we have to turn tragedy into
activism alert the world to the
tragedy what happened that day
and find a new way to let it
live on as a source of energy
and momentum for all of us
there can you police reservist
they're armed with automatic
rifles they're trained to a very
high standard
we've set up the dog section
highly trained attack stroke
tracker stroke patrol units